At first glance, Nabupa Aspire Gold Plus
seems to win where it matters the most.
Higher claim settlement ratio, a bigger
hospital network, and stronger brand
recall in the health insurance space.
But take a closer look and ICIC Eluate
quietly begins to outshine in one area
that truly matters. Actual coverage and
real life claim protection. Now before
we go deeper, hey folks, I'm Shashank
and you're tuned in to DTO insurance. We
help people understand health insurance
without any pressure to buy. We're not
sales people. where your insurance
parties. You can book a free call with
us using the link in the description and
we'll walk you through every detail of
your plan or help you choose a new one
that suits your health history and
goals. All right, let's compare Aspire
Gold Plus and ICICI Elevate feature by
feature. Let's start with the basics.
ICICI has been in the game for over 22
years while Neoaba has been active for
16. Not a massive difference there, but
the majority shows in how ICICI has
handled its scale. Their average
complaint ratio is about 9 per 10,000
claims. One of the best in the industry.
In contrast, NEA Bupas is at 43, which
is significantly higher and can be a red
flag if you're particular about postale
service. However, Neabupa's claim
settlement ratio is better at 91% versus
ICICIs at 85%. And when it comes to
network hospitals, Neobupa clearly leads
again with access to over 10,200
hospitals compared to ICICIs at 7,500.
So if hospital access and smoother
claims are your top priorities, Neabupa
does have a slight edge early on. Now
let's talk about coverage and this is
where Elevate begins to build a serious
lead. ICICI's Elevate plan offers a
summon shot that goes from 5 lakh rupees
to literally unlimited. Meanwhile,
Aspire Gold Plus from Nabupa caps out at
1 cr rupees. That's still a large
number, but if you want the peace of
mind of infinite coverage, especially
for lifestyle diseases, critical
illness, or even expensive surgeries
abroad, ICICI has a massive advantage
there. When it comes to entry age, both
plans allow adults from 18 onwards, but
only ICICI has no cap on maximum entry
age. With Neabupa, entry is allowed only
till 65. Also in Elway children are
considered dependent up to 30 years of
age under the family floater plan while
NEA bupa has no defined exit age which
works better if your child is
financially dependent beyond 30 years.
Now moving on to waiting periods. Both
plans have an initial waiting period of
30 days and 36 months waiting period for
pre-existing diseases that is 3 years.
But ICIC is more aggressive with
specific illness waiting periods
allowing an add-on to reduce them from
24 months to 12 months compared to
Neabupa's flat 24 months. This is a big
plus if you're buying insurance as a
preventive tool, not just a for worst
case scenario. Want to know how these
waiting periods affect you personally or
if your medical condition qualifies for
faster coverage? Book a free one-on-one
call with DTO using the link below.
We'll decode it for you. Now, coming to
hospitalization features, Neaba offers
any room rent category by default. ICICI
offers a single private room, but you
can upgrade it with an add-on. So, the
flexibility is there in both. It's just
structured differently. There's no
co-ayment in either plan. Disease wise
sublimmits also not applicable. Both
cover all treatments up to your base
summon shot. Daycare procedures AIOS
doicile treatments again both plans are
very solid on these basics. But when it
comes to pre and post hospitalization
coverage, ICICI wins again. You get 90
days before hospitalization and 180 days
after compared to naba 60 and 180. Those
extra 30 days might not seem like a big
deal until you are getting expensive
tests done a month before your surgery
and can't claim them under a 60-day
window. Both plans offer unlimited
restoration, which means once your
summon shot is exhausted, it gets
reloaded for other claims in the same
year. However, Nimaba lets you use both
the base and restored cover together in
the same claim, but only from the second
claim onwards. ICICI Elevate allows
unlimited restoration, too. Now, here's
where things start to diverge
meaningfully. Maternity coverage. ICIC
elevate offers maternity as an optional
add-on covering up to 1 lak rupees with
a waiting period of just 2 years. It
includes delivery that is either normal
or c-section expenses for surrogate and
usite donors and even vaccinations for
the newborn. NAB aspire gold on the
other hand has maternity inbuilt through
its miracle benefit. It starts from as
low as 4,000 for three lakh summon shot
and goes all the way up to 25,000 rupees
for higher summon shot options. It also
includes some unique additions like
coverage for assisted reproduction,
infertility and even expenses related to
legally adopting a child with the
waiting period a full 4 years. So what
does this mean? Well, if you're looking
for faster maternity access, ICIC
elevate wins. But if you're planning for
long-term family planning and want those
extra use cases, Neva Bupa gives you
broader but slower access. But also you
can look at higherend variants of Aspire
which can reduce waiting period to as
low as 9 months. Maternity coverage can
get confusing fast and it's personal
depending on whether you're planning a
family already pregnant or going through
IVF. Book a free call with DTO. We'll
break it down for you oneonone. The link
is in the description. Now let's talk
bonuses. ICIC eleate gives you flat 20%
bonus on your summon shot for every
claim free year up to 100%. Neabupa's
system is more dynamic based on your
age. You can carry forward 1x, 2x or 3x
of your unused cover which can compound
quickly if you stay healthy. Health
checkups in both plans are available
from day one but only for a defined set
of tests and only at network hospitals.
Ambulance charges both road and air are
covered fully under both the plans. Both
plans also come with wellness benefits.
ICIC Elevate offers up to 30% renewal
discount for active lifestyles and
Neabupa gives up to 30% renewal
discounts based on your step count. So
if you walk a lot, track your steps, you
could literally reduce a premium over
time. Now let's look at some unique
features and add-ons. ICIC elevate has
some powerful options like jump start
which brings down the PD waiting period
for lifestyle conditions like diabetes
and hypertension to just 30 days.
There's also power boosters for doubling
your cover every year, infinite care for
one-time unlimited claims, room
modifiers, durable equipment cover,
inflation protection, and neabupa offers
some equally innovative features like
safeguard plus for consumables, disease
management to eliminate PD waiting
period for diabetes and BP and cover
them from day one. Future ready for
continuity benefits when adding a spouse
later and fast forward to combine
multi-tenure cover. You also get
unlimited e- consultations and discounts
for medical professionals, even
international treatment under their
borderless add-on. So, both plans have a
lot of meaningful add-ons, but ICIC
elevates Jumpstart and Infinite Care
stand out more for people managing
lifestyle diseases and expecting one
major future hospitalization. Now, if
you're confused by these add-ons and
don't want to overpay for stuff you
don't need, Ditto Advisor will help you
customize your policy for free. Links in
the description. Now here's the big
question. Which plan should you go for?
Now if you are comparing purely on brand
perception, hospital network and CSR,
NEAPA has a stronger play. But if you
bring in complaint volumes, depth of
coverage, some ensure flexibility and
highquality add-ons, ICIC elevate starts
pulling ahead. And if you're someone
planning a family or dealing with
lifestyle illnesses, the faster waiting
periods and optional maternity add-on
from ICICI Elevate can make a real world
of difference. Neabupa is great if
you're young, fit, and want to maximize
your cover over time with its booster
system. But for high involvement users
who want to customize and control every
aspect of their coverage, ICICI gives
you more livers. Still unsure which
one's better for your specific case?
That's what DTO is here for. Book a free
one-on-one call using the link below and
we'll give you unbiased advice based on
what really matters. That is your health
history, family setup, budget, and
long-term goals. Thank you so much for
watching the video, folks, and make sure
your insurance works for you and not the
way around. I'll see you in the next
one. Up until then, happy cha and
hunting.